
	Though relatively new technology, computers, by way of the worldwide web, allow virtually unhindered access to any information. It is the web that connects all of the information together, consisting of a collection of text pages, photos, files. All of this information is in web pages, with individual hypertext links to take you to different pages. The internet, linked by telephone lines, is the worldwide network of computers that allows the exchange of information to flow through the web. Despite the plethora of information at our fingertips today, it wasn’t until the 80’s, that computers were changed forever.
	In the 1970’s, personal computers were on the market. These had different programs written specifically for each device. It was in the 80’s when IBM, the worlds largest computer company famous for “big blue” mainframes, introduced a personal computer geared towards small businesses. It didn’t take long until others started copying the idea. Short after, Microsoft came up with windows software, that allowed all “IBM-Compatible” computers to run on the same programs, rather than one for each device. With this advancement, there was still the question as to how it could be possible for all computers to “talk the same language.”
	Tim Berners-Lee, at the time, worked at CERN, the European Particle Physics Laboratory. With the use of computers, he started noticing two problems. One was that they had no “memory,” and every time people left, they were taking the information with them. The other problem was that people using different computers had no simple way of exchanging information and research. At the time, computers were storing and processing information using ASCII (American standard code for information interchange). Also known as “plain text,” numbers 0-255 were used in place for keyboard characters, letters and numbers. It was the foundation of ASCII that Berners-Lee came up with two basic systems of rules.
	The basic system of rules, also known as “protocols” consisted of HTTP (Hypertext transfer protocol) and HTML (Hypertext markup language), and are how the web works today. HTTP is the way for two computers to exchange information, by one computer asking another for web pages. HTML made all CERN computers exchange files written in a common language allowing any computer to understand and display properly. HTTP now allowed any computer in the worldwide web to access and share information compatible for all devices. 
	It is with URLs (a Universal or uniform resource locator), that Berners-Lee gave each web page its own “zip code”, allowing computers to obtain information stored on other computers. The URL, in the text box at the top of an internet browser consists of four different parts, all with different meanings. The beginning of the URL link (http) indicated that your computer uses the standard process http to pull the page off of the computer. The next part is the address or domain, the name of the file you’re reading, and ends with an indicator that it is an HTML file. It was with the new language of computers, with HTML code and HTTP that paved the way for further advancements in technology, but more importantly the constant flow of information across platforms. 
